# SynNetAspAppDomainOnlyInterop<br />
**Created Date:** 8/29/2014<br />
**Last Updated:** 9/10/2014<br />
**Description:** An example of how to use a Synergy .NET Interop assembly in an ASP.NET application. This example assumes a stateless environment in both the ASP.NET Web application AND the Synergy code. In other words NO RELICANCE on consistency of COMMON, GLOBAL or STATIC data and no channels left open beyond the completion of any method.<br />
**Platforms:** Windows<br />
**Products:** Synergy DBL; Synergy .NET<br />
**Minimum Version:** 10.1.1c<br />
**Author:** Steve Ives
<hr>

**Additional Information:** There are some special considerations that must be taken into account when
executing Synergy .NET code in any multi-threaded environment. Specifically a
developer must give special consideration to how the following entities are
used within the code, all of which exist at the process level:

* Channels
* COMMON data
* GLOBAL data
* STATIC data or other entities
* Environment variables

In traditional Synergy environments (when compiling with dbl.exe and executing
your code with dbr.exe) your code executes in a process that is dedicated to
running your program. If other users are running the same code then they are
running it in the context of a totally seperate process. This means that each
instance of the code has private channels and common data, etc.

However, in Synergy .NET it is possible to execute code in environments where
multi-threading (running several "threads" of code all within a single process)
is supported. Examples of multi-threaded environments include:

* Code that you write to execute code in multiple threads
* ASP.NET Web applications
* Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) services

There are two main things that must be considered when running code in any
multi-threaded environment:

1. By default code running in all threads share the same Channels, COMMON
data, GLOBAL data and STATICs.

2. If the code uses xfServer then it is critical that any given entity of
code always executes on the same thread, and the code must execute
xcall s_server_thread_init before accessing xfServer.

If you want each instance of code to be isolated from all other instances, so
that channels, COMMONs, GLOBALs, etc. are unique to that thread, then the way
to achieve that is to load each instance of the code into a seperate "AppDomain",
and if xfServer is being used then it must also be ensured that each instance
of the code always executes on the same thread. The sample code included with
this example demonstrates how to do that when implementing a WCF service.

IMPORTANT: This example code does not address the issue of environment variables.
If your application uses XCALL SETLOG to set environment variables at runtime,
and if the values of those environment variables vary (based on user, or some
other criteria) then you must implement that functionality in some other way.
In Synergy (including Syenrgy .NET) environment variables are always set at the
process level, and AppDomain protection DOES NOT CHANGE THAT!

================================================================================
BusinessLogic Project

This project is a Synergy .NET Interop project. In the "xfServerPlusCode"
folder you will find code that used to be xfServerPlus methods. In the
"GeneratedCode" solder you will find the various classes that are generated
by the Interop project each time you build the solution. DO NOT EDIT THESE
FILES BECAUSE THEY WILL BE OVERWRITTEN DURING EACH BUILD.

An important part of this environment is the code in the source file named
ServicesCustom.dbl. This code slightly enhances the main class generated by
the Interop project so that the code can be loaded into an AppDomain.

================================================================================
WebApplication Project

This is a C# ASP.NET Web project that has a reference to the BusinessLogic
assembly and uses the classes exposed by that assembly.

Examine the code in the ServicesWrapper.cs source file. In the file you will see
a class calles ServicesWrapper. This class facilitates the loading of the
underlying BusinessLogic.Services class (containing your business logic) into
an AppDomain. Also the AppDomain is locked to a single thread so that xfServer
can be used.

Also look at the various .cs files behind the web pages, and notice the pattern
that is used to call methods via the ServicesWrapper class. Following this
pattern in CRITICAL!!!

================================================================================
Running the project in IIS

As shipped, both assemblies are configured to builf for "AnyCPU" and the
WebApplicationProject is configured to run under IIS Express. If you want to
run the example code under full IIS on a 64-bit system, you will need to
change both prjects to build for x64. To do this edit the project properties
for both projects and make the change on the Build tab for each.
